
Ron Bronson is entering his 5th year as head coach of the girl's tennis program at Catlin Gabel School in Portland. Since taking the helm of the Eagles, In 2022, the school won its 6th OSAA state title in dominant fashion, and during the pandemic-shortened 2021 season, won the Oregontennis.com 3A team dual state championship. 

Under Bronson, the program won back-to-back District titles and haven't lost a dual match in conference play since 2019. He coached the 2023 4A State Doubles championship, only the 2nd Catlin Gabel girls duo to win a doubles title, and the first since 1996. Two former Eagles have gone on to play Division 1 including two-time State singles semi-finalist Anna Semler, who also teamed up with Rachel Yoken in 2020 to claim the 3A doubles title. 3-time All-State selection Lola Diaz Gonzalez was a state finalist in 2022, claimed the 3A singles title in 2021, and three district titles during his standout career.

Coach Bronson was named 2022-23 4A Girls State Coach of the Year by the Oregon Athletic Coaches Association, and has been honored twice as a Regional/District Coach of the Year in different states.

Prior to Catlin Gabel, Coach Bronson was Boys Varsity Head Coach at Oregon City (OR), where the team earned OSAA All-State Academic Honors in 2019. During the pandemic, he concurrently led the boys & girls tennis program at Cheyenne Central (WY), and led the girls program to the South Regional & Conference title in 2022. While at Central, he coached two All-State selections including a state champion (Hailey Mathis, 2nd singles) and a state finalist (Ashli Smedley, 1st singles) en route to a 3rd place finish at state

Over a decade earlier, he started his coaching career leading tennis programs at private camps in New England, as well as one season as the men's assistant coach at Aurora University (IL). 

He later played college tennis at Monmouth College in Illinois, after four years in the US Air Force.  Ron was a 4-year letter winner at Plainfield (NJ) High School, where he was part of 3 state playoff teams and was a captain on their first boys conference championship title squad in 1997. His high school coach was 2-time New Jersey coach of the Year and Eastern Tennis Association Hall of Famer Donald Van Blake.